People v Lucas
2024 NY Slip Op 02843 [42 NY3d 1055]
May 23, 2024

Court of Appeals

Published by [1]New York State Law Reporting Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.

As corrected through Wednesday, February 19, 2025

[*1]

The People of the State of New York, Respondent,
v
Antwyne Lucas, Appellant.

Argued April 18, 2024; decided May 23, 2024

[2]People v Lucas, 215 AD3d 763, affirmed.

HEADNOTES

Crimes Right to Counsel Effective Representation Failure to Impeach
Prosecution Witness with Prior Inconsistent Statement Record Inadequate
to Establish Ineffective Assistance

1. The record on direct appeal in defendant's robbery prosecution was
inadequate to establish that defendant's trial counsel rendered
ineffective assistance by failing to impeach a detective, who testified
that the victim had identified defendant as the gunman in a lineup,
with his suppression hearing testimony that the victim was unsure if
defendant was the gunman. The contention that defense counsel
unreasonably failed to impeach the detective with his own inconsistent
testimony was not without some significance, but required consideration
of matters outside the record to determine whether this was trial
strategy. The possibility could not be ruled out that counsel may have
[*2]elected to avoid calling the credibility of a sympathetic victim, a
priest, into question during the cross-examination of the detective,
and instead opted to focus the jury's attention on a different prior
inconsistent statement, namely, the detective's sworn allegation in the
felony complaint naming the codefendant as the gunman. Further, counsel
may have concluded that raising the inconsistency risked reinforcing to
the jury that the victim did, in fact, identify defendant as the gunman
at the time of the lineup—even if he did so equivocally—which may have
buttressed the detective's assertion that he merely made a clerical
error in identifying the codefendant as the gunman in the complaint.
Crimes Right to Counsel Effective Representation Failure to Request
Cross-Racial Identification Instruction

2. For the reasons set forth in People v Watkins (— NY3d —, 2024 NY
Slip Op 02842 [2024]), defense counsel's consent to the omission of a
cross-racial identification instruction prior to the decision in
[3]People v Boone (30 NY3d 521 [2017]), which made such an instruction
mandatory upon request, did not alone amount to ineffective assistance
of counsel.

APPEARANCES OF COUNSEL

Patricia Pazner, Appellate Advocates, New York City (Anders Nelson of
counsel), for appellant.

Michael E. McMahon, District Attorney, Staten Island (Timothy Pezzoli,
Thomas B. Litsky, James Joseph Gandia and Rhys Johnson of counsel), for
respondent.

{**42 NY3d at 1056} OPINION OF THE COURT
